feat: add administration and installation docs (#259)
go-vela/docs: content/administration/server/_index.md

---
title: "Overview"
linkTitle: "Server"
weight: 1
description: >
  This section contains information on the Vela server service.
---

Known as the brains of the Vela application, this service is responsible for managing the state of application resources.

Additionally, it processes web requests and pushes workloads to the queue to be run on a [worker](/docs/administration/worker/).

> // TODO: add more information

Author: Maybe? But I feel that is outside the scope of the MVP of instructions to add.

Plus, we don't have any experience running Vela on Kubernetes for production workloads.

I think the same holds true for Target as well.

Seems like we may not be the best candidate to write those instructions.

> // TODO: add more information

Reviewer: I think we should at least mention it is possible to deploy the server, worker, and ui to kubernetes without providing those instructions. Maybe mention that documentation for this will come from community contributions in the future?

> // TODO: add more information

Author: This should be addressed 👍

You can use the [`docker pull` command](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/pull/) to download the image:

```shell
$ docker pull target/vela-server:latest
```

{{% alert title="Note:" color="primary" %}}
The `latest` tag will ensure you install the most-recent version of the Vela server.

To see the full list of available versions, please refer to [the official registry](https://hub.docker.com/r/target/vela-server). 
{{% /alert %}}

### Step 2: Create an Encryption Key

Create an [Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard) key used for encrypting sensitive data at rest in the database.

You can use the [`openssl` command](https://www.openssl.org/) to generate the AES key:

```shell
$ openssl aes-128-cbc -k secret -P -md sha1
```

### Step 3: Create a Shared Secret

Create a shared secret used for authenticating communication between workers and the server.

You can use the [`openssl` command](https://www.openssl.org/) to generate the shared secret:

```shell
$ openssl rand -hex 16
```

> ### Step 4: Create an OAuth Application

Author: I don't think so but would like to hear your thoughts on maybe why it should?

> ### Step 4: Create an OAuth Application

Reviewer: I'm thinking ahead when https://github.com/go-vela/server/pull/542 is merged to allow additional scm drivers, we likely don't want this page talking about all available scm configuration options.

> ### Step 4: Create an OAuth Application

Reviewer 2: Could this be a screenshot of a window that has been minimized to eliminate most of the blank space?

> ### Step 4: Create an OAuth Application

Author: This should be addressed 👍

Create a [GitHub OAuth application](https://docs.github.com/developers/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app) used for authentication and authorization with GitHub.

![OAuth Application](oauth.png)

{{% alert title="Warning:" color="secondary" %}}

> The `Homepage URL` and the `Authorization callback URL` must contain the `VELA_ADDR` environment variable below.

Author: Do you think we need that point of clarification since the image already displays this configuration?

> The `Homepage URL` and the `Authorization callback URL` must contain the `VELA_ADDR` environment variable below.

Reviewer: Yeah, I always prefer to copy text from documentation instead of looking at images for the correct example.

> The `Homepage URL` and the `Authorization callback URL` must contain the `VELA_ADDR` environment variable below.

Author: fixed 👍

{{% /alert %}}

### Step 2: Create an Encryption Key

Create an [Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard) key used for encrypting sensitive data at rest in the database.

You can use the [`openssl` command](https://www.openssl.org/) to generate the AES key:

```shell
$ openssl aes-128-cbc -k secret -P -md sha1
```

{{% alert title="Note:" color="primary" %}}
This command will output multiple key/value pairs for the AES key.

The specific value we need from the output is the line with `key` in it (i.e. `key=<value>`).
{{% /alert %}}

### Step 3: Create a Shared Secret

Create a shared secret used for authenticating communication between workers and the server.

You can use the [`openssl` command](https://www.openssl.org/) to generate the shared secret:

```shell
$ openssl rand -hex 16
```

### Step 4: Create an OAuth Application

Create a [GitHub OAuth application](https://docs.github.com/developers/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app) used for authentication and authorization with GitHub.

> ![OAuth Application](oauth.png)

Reviewer 2: Could this be a screenshot of a window that has been minimized to eliminate most of the blank space?

Author: This should be addressed 👍

---
no_list: true
title: "Overview"
linkTitle: "Server"
weight: 1
description: >
  This section contains information on the Vela server service.
---

Known as the brains of the Vela application, this service is responsible for managing the state of application resources.

This includes managing resources in the system (repositories, users etc.) and storing resource data in the database.

Additionally, the server responds to event-driven requests (webhooks) which creates new workloads to run on a [worker](/docs/administration/worker/).

After a workload is created, it is pushed to the queue which will be retrieved and executed by a worker.

As a workload is run by a worker, it will send requests to the server's API which stores the state of the workloads in the database.

// TODO: more information we should include?

## Deployment Guides

> Vela supports several deployment strategies to enable the preferences of you and your team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vela currently supports two deployment strategies to enable the preferences of you and your team.
```

Author: I'm not opposed to making this change, but should we be concerned with defining the exact number of strategies?

The problem with this approach is it can make the docs inflexible for future change as more strategies are added.

Thoughts?

Reviewer 2: Makes sense, but the definition of `several` is more than two, and there are currently only two. Just read weird to me.

Reviewer 3: I kind of like accommodating future growth, but technically several is more than two (TIL) and I guess that would be a lie, currently. Maybe `.. supports a number of deployment strategies...`? :)

Author: @KellyMerrick yeah I think that's fair feedback 👍 

@wass3r I'm good with that proposed change 👍 

I'll make it now

Author: This is addressed 👍
